Variables:

A variable is an identifier which is used to identify some data.

Variable is a temporary memory location.
It will be created in RAM
It can be used to hold the one or more values.
It will be accessed by OS, while the programme is being executed
As soon as programme execution completed, variables will be cleared automatically.


syntax:
var var_name="data";
var username = "venu";

var is keyword
var_name is variable var_name
"data" is the value

Variable name always start with alphabet
No case sensitive
No Special charaters are allowed, except var_name
Max 255 charaters can be given.


In JS, there are 2 types of variables.

1. Local Variables:

Any variable that gets created inside a function is known as local variable.

The local variables can be accessed only inside the function.

The local variables will be available in local scope.


2. Global Variables.

A variable that can be created outside of function, then it is called as global variable.
global variables can be used throughout the application.


Variable Hoisting:

It is a default process used by javascript where all the variable's declaration 
will be take to the top before execution of the actual code.


Problem statement:

Implement like and dislik buttons for my web page.

Algorithem:

get the like and dislike buttons and show them on ui.
we should make them clickable.
onclick count should be increased.
the increased value should be displayed on ui.






Datatypes:

A datatype specifies which type of data is referred in a variable.

JS provides two types of datatypes.

1.primitive types: number, string, boolean
2.non-primitive types: arrays and object


Non-premitive types:

Arrays:

An array is a linear data structure which stores the data in sequential order.

In Js, an array can store different types of data.

Syntax:

var arr=[];

Array index starts from 0, i.e, the reference of the values stored in the array will be identified through indexes.


Problem Statement:

Create a an array that should contain a list of usernames available in database.

Get the total number of users

Get the 3rd user from an users array.


